Managing a City's Transportation Systems - Paul Welsh
=====================================================


1st Traffic Signals
-------------------

Installed outside Houses of Parliament in 1868. Unfortunately they were gas powered they exploded a few days later.


Traffic Signals History
-----------------------

First eletric ones in NY 1911.

First "automatic" (pre-programmed) signals in Wolverhampton and Leeds 1924. Both claimed they were the first

Vehicle responsive signals in 1960's worked by rubber tubes across the road.

Solid state logic 1970.

Microprocessors introduced in 1980's. Temperature problems in these.


History of control in Cities
----------------------------

Fixed time signal network control - Urban Traffic Control (70's). First time that people outside the ministry found out about traffic control.

Real time signal control - SCOOT (80's). Looks at what triffic is headed towards each approach of signals 4 times a second. End up with a huge network of traffic. Semi-closed network (feedback included). Looking for a smooth journey from one junction to another. Things like bus-stops can cause an uncontrolled reflection. Right turns were a pain; the workaround is still in use today.

Urban Traffic Management in the 90's with ongoing deployment (http://www.utmc.org.uk).

Shared management with the strategic network - still work in progress. M6 and M42 gantries just the tip of the iceberg. Motorway management.


Fixed Time Networking Model
---------------------------

3% loss due to changing environment.


Real Time Network Control
-------------------------

17% reduction in delays after the 1st trail in Coventry on two routes. 2nd trail in Worcester confirmed this.

SCATS in another system (Australia and Asia) as is Balance.

SCATS and SCOOT becoming similar. SCATS superior for turning, but it falls down for emergency systems.

During the SCOOT trail there was a closure of a major radial route. Set the computer recording what was happening. City Centre was slow moving but not gridlock; there are limit stops, but they're much wider than SCATS.


SCOOT principals
----------------

It does need a high level of maintenance. Depends on a 'calibrated' model. Responds to changes in flow in real time.

It isn't a fit and forget.


Urban Traffic Management and Control - UTMC
-------------------------------------------

Don't just manage the traffic, manage the whole city.

The holistic management of the transportation network. Now operational in many cities.

Uses National standards (these are self-contained); needs very specific data objects. Can take data and transfer to any system without ambiguity.

For example using ANPR to measure speeds over several jurisdictions.

Will help the Network Manager delivery. By law this manager is responsible to making sure there are as few delays as possible through the network.

Now cooperating with RTIG and TIH (bus control and dissemination of information to the general public) including sharing standards.

UTMC joins lots of services together.

Safety is **always** local.

In the UK motorists are very good at getting out the way.


Motorways
---------

MIDAS - Incident detection from late 70's (still ongoing).

Motorway signs - 80's and onwards.

"Standing Waves" take a long time to dissipate.

16 MPH is the perfect speed for getting everyone past a single point.


