#Agile Methodologies 2012 Exam Answers

1.  a. The Agile Manifesto by Beck et al prposes several ways to improve
    software development by refocussing developers' priorities to produce
    software that accurately meets its requirements.

    The manifesto states that individuals and actions hold more value than
    processes and tools i.e. conversation between individuals is a better means
    for communication and understanding than relying on tools and 'policies and
    practices'. Tooling still holds value - it may remind developers of a
    conversation they had and provide paper trails for planning. However, it is
    better for team members to communicate directly with each other than to
    wait for a company policy or process to give them access to knowledge that
    they need.

    It can be said that comprehensive documentation adds value to working
    software. However if the software is incomplete or doesn't exist because
    focus has been put on documentation then nothing of value has been
    delivered to the customers. In an ideal world, both artifacts would be
    provided but if there's not enough time, working software provides value to
    the customer, even if the documentation is incomplete.

    Customer collaboration over contract negotation asserts that tension over
    pay and deadlines occuring between developers and customers can waste time
    and detract from the quality of the software. Whilst it is important that
    developers get paid adequately and are treated fairly, a helpful and
    collaborative relationship with the customer is much more condusive to high
    quality software than bickering about budgets.

    If there is a change to a customer's requirements or a new circumstance, it
    is better for the developers to respond to the change instead of sticking
    to the original plan. After all, the old plan no longer reflects the
    customer's requirements and would result in a product that holds little
    value to them. However, updated requirements must still be carefully
    planned out and changes prioritised to prevent total anarchy and derailment
    of the project.
  
  b. Using an agile or Plan based design methodology for large software
     projects is a very important decision to make at the start of a project.

     It is possible to identify all of a software's project requirements before
     work starts - especially in cases where the project is quite simple and
     there has been a lot of investment into analysing the problem. However,
     for more complex projects it is almost impossible to identify all of the
     requirements at the beginning. Some requirements may only emerge after the
     developer has been working on the project for a while, learning its
     intricacies effectively. In these cases, an agile approach may be more
     effective.

     Another complication is the likelhood that a project's requirements may
     change during development. It may be possible to use a plan-based approach
     for current requirements, but these do not respond well to change and may
     result in software that doesn't offer the customer any real value.

     Plan based approaches can be useful in circumstances where a lot of
     analysis has already been done and requirements are static - like the
     creation of motor firmware for a space robot. However, in times of
     uncertainty and change, Agile might be a better approach.

  c. Agile processes promote sustainable development. This means that agile
     works well at helping developers identify 'dangerous' aspects of a
     software project such as changes in specification, and account for them in
     their project plan. Before Agile, projects typically become very expensive
     to maintain and the cost of maintainence increased with respect to time -
     making many projects prohibitively expensive to maintain. Agile aims to
     reduce the cost of maintainence on software projects and keep the product
     useful and maintainable for as long as the customer requires it.


