Revision Session
================

##Past Paper 2012

[Past Paper 2012](https://www.aber.ac.uk/en/media/CS38010-12.pdf)

###Question 1
This question is about intellectual property rights.

####Question 1.a)
Compare and contrast the protection that copyright and trademarks can provide for computer games software:

---

* Trademarks -> brands (characters, titles).
* Copyright, binaries, story, characters.
* Distribution
* Advertisement
* Distribution with written (?) permission
* Assignment to larger corps

* Trademarks only cover the brand
* Copyright covers a whole part of the work -> adoptions of the work.

####Question 1.b)
Explain what a patent is, and how a company would apply for a patent for a novel computer hardware device for potentially international sale. What documentation must be included in the application?

---

Patents give the owner an exclusive right to use or exploit an invention for up to 20 years. Must be new, novel, capable of industrial application and not specifically excluded.

* UK Patents office, within a year to the international patent office.
* Documentation to describe the inventive step.


###Question 2
This question looks at what is involved in job design.

####Question 2.a)
Discuss what is meant by job rotation, job enlargement and job enrichment.

---

* Rotation of responsibilities.
* Addition of similar responsibilities.
* Addition of wider responsibilities.

####Question 2.b)
Look at the following scenario in an accounts payable office.

* Freda receives incoming invoices and matches them to purchase orders
* Gareth confirms price calculations and despatches paperwork to the goods-in department for confirmation that goods or services have been received
* John receives confirmation from that department and passes paperwork for payment
* Peter produces the payment
* Julie handles queries arising at any of the above stages

Discuss how you would use job rotation, enlargement and enrichment to give benefits to the involvement and happiness of the staff.

---

First four get rotation weekly.

Enlargement means all 4 do the same for a group of invoices.

Julie gets enrichment by getting enlargement and her current job.

###Question 3
This question looks at outsourcing and discrimination at work.

####Question 3.a)
Explain what is meant by the term *outsourcing*.

---

N/A

####Question 3.b)
AberLamb Ltd specialises in providing meat products to local and more distant shops and supermarkets. The company has grown considerably over the last few years and it IT infrastructure is becoming a problem due to the company's lack of computer skills. Write a note to the managing director explaining why outsourcing may be the solution.

---

N/A

####Question 3.c)
What protection does European law offer to employees who are transferred to a different employer as a result of outsourcing?

---

Transference of rights. Same job must be given to a transferred person.

####Question 3.d)
Explain the difference between direct discrimination and indirect discrimination, illustrating your answer by suitable examples from at least two areas of discrimination.

---

* Direct discrimination is treating one group of people less favourably than another.
* Indirect is the imposing of a requirement which can be satisfied by a much smaller proportion of a group than from another which cannot be justifiable by the job requirements.

###Question 4
This question is about employee retention and professional status.

####Question 4.a)
Systems Designers PLC, a major UK software and service company with more than 1,000 employees, carried out an employee survey five years ago to help find out why employees were leaving at twice the rate of the industry average. Subsequent exit interviews suggested that poor pay rates were the cause of the high employee turnover. The company increased its pay rates, but the high turnover rate failed to decline. 

The company undertook a deeper investigation of employee turnover patterns over the last twelve months and found several factors were involved. The investigation also found that pay levels had the weakest impact on employee turnover.

Based on the above scenario that demonstrates the fallibility of exit interviews, discuss THREE factors you think would have more influence on employee turnover and explain why.

---

* Job satisfaction (training from professional bodies and development)
* Market forces (?)
* Discontent
* Politics and office conditions
* Job design

* Honesty of exit interviews

####Question 4.b)
Explain the terms reservation of title and reservation of function as applied to the professions, giving examples of professions in the UK to which each applies.

---

* Reservation of title - cannot use title unless allowed by a body
* Reservation of function - cannot practise a function unless allowed by a body

Vets (both), civil engineer (title), accountants (function), dietician (none).


####Question 4.c)
To what extent are these terms applicable to the engineering profession in the UK and in the USA.

---

In the USA engineers have to undergo specific tests.

Degree accreditation.


###Question 5
This question is on the subject of employment law.

Joan Doe was employed by a local pub as a barmaid on a six month contract. As part of her duties she had to ensure that all the glasses were washed and the bar tidied up ready for the cleaners in the morning. The pub had a kitchen and this was the final exit route that Joan had to take at night. Two stairs led down from the bar into the kitchen. One night when Joan was the last one leaving she noticed that the kitchen light had been switched off by the back door – on the other side of kitchen. On stepping down the stairs she fell in the dark and broke her collarbone.

Her employer didn't renew her contract.

####Question 5.a)
From what you have read, discuss Joan's employer's responsibility in this accident.

---

System should be in place to ensure this never happens. H&S procedure needs to be reviewed, incident book. Joan needs to report dangerous situations.

####Question 5.b)
Discuss the issues that Joan might have in relation to bringing a case against her employer for unfair dismissal.

---

Disability discrimination? Perfectly within their rights to not renew the contract.


