# January 2012 Worked Answers #

*Note: In some cases I've written lots more detail than is needed for the marks to provide
a bit more flexibility in the exam and some different 

> 1. 
> a) Over the last 50 years there have been very many space probes launched to the planets
> and moons within our solar system. In your opinion has robotic 'science fact' lived up
> to the dreams of robotic 'science fiction?' Explain why differences might exist between
> robotic „science fact? and robotic „science fiction?.
> [6 Marks]

Within the field of robotics, science fact is keeping up quite well with 
science fiction. Robots such as the Mars Exploration Rover (MER) and 
Mars Science Laboratoy (MSL) have the ability to navigate obstacles and 
automatically decide which subjects are 'interesting' and should be more 
closely analysed. However, these systems are unable to operate completely 
autonomously and will often require the intervention of a human operator 
for management of anomolous circumstances and to send the rovers new commands 
once they have completed a given task. On the other hand, their fictional 
counterparts such as  Johnny 5 (Short Circuit 1988) and Wall-e (Wall-e, 2008) 
are completely autonomous, using Artificial Intelligence (AI) to manage all 
of their own actions and make their own choices in exceptional circumstances.

Hardware such as flexible dexterous arms and bi-pedal robots have long been a 
product of science fiction. In recent years, however, many of these fictional 
robotic devices have been realised as science fact. For example, the Asimo 
project by Honda is a bipedal robot capable of running and climbing stairs. 
Robotic arms used for surgery in novels such as Logan's Run (Nolan, 1967) have 
also been made a reality, carrying out many operations with accuracy and precision
far exceeding that of a human surgeon. However, these real systems still require the
control of a human being and do not possess the AI to function independently.

The application and study of Artificial intelligence, used to drive robotics has 
significantly fallen behind science fiction in the last few decades. Despite progress
in systems that recognise images and speech and systems that can answer questions posed
in plain english, self-aware robotic systems such as HAL (2001: A Space Odyssey 
(A. C. Clarke, 1968) are far beyond the capability of today's AI techniques.

Often in fiction robots like humans, in reality we just want functional/instrumental stuff.




* Automated spacecraft are a reality - lots of unmanned missions to mars etc
*

